---
layout:     post
title:      QQPhoto (ICS 18) 论文阅读
date:       2022-12-20
tags:
    - Cache
categories: paperreading
comments: true
---

[Demystifying Cache Policies for Photo Stores at Scale: A Tencent Case Study](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3205289.3205299)

## Abstract

- a study on internet-scale photo caching algorithms in the case of QQPhoto from Tencent Inc.: even advanced cache algorithms can only perform at a similar level as simple baseline algorithms
- with appropriate prefetching, improve the cache hit ratio and reduce the average access latency at a marginal cost of 4.14% backend network traffic

## Introduction

- It is particularly challenging to design effective cache algorithms for photo caching workloads, as the access patterns are rather complicated and extremely difficult to predict **due to the nature of multi-tenancy and extensive-sharing in the cloud web environment**.
- We find that the major factor limiting hit ratio improvement is the compulsory misses or cold misses. Moreover, we have observed that a majority of photos are requested in a limited period of the time following the photo uploading, which we call the **immediacy feature**. Leveraging this feature, we propose to augment a prefetcher to the photo cache to reduce compulsory misses.

## Background and Motivation

### QQPhoto Preliminaries

In QQPhoto, photo writes and reads are routed through separate upload and download channels and the QQPhoto cache stack specifically refers to the download cache path. 

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/fig/QQPhoto-fig1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

### Photo Traces and Sampling Method

reservoir sampling 选 1/100 的 key，之后只观察这些 key 的 reference（跟 SHARDS 有点像）

### Advanced Algorithms

### Motivation

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/fig/QQPhoto-fig2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

因为高级算法没用，不如另辟蹊径。

## Photo Cache Prefetching

不同 resolution 可能会影响命中，所以只需要 prefetch 最热的那个 resolution。因为 prefetch 一些照片到 cache，也涉及到在新的情况下如何做 eviction。

## Evaluation

暂时没看

## 评论

不明白 resolution 是什么。文章看得我晕晕的。感觉太针对这个 traces 了，不够 general and open-minded。但有一个神奇的好处是，photo caching trace 可以比较方便地改成 object storage traces。